[Home](../README.md) > [Code 401 Topic Notes](../401topicNotes.md)

# Class 02 Reading

## An Introduction to NodeJS and Express

### Explain middleware, answer as though I were a non-technical recruiter

Middleware is software you can use in your projects to perform a task that may be complex and is already written out, tested, and maintained by someone else. This saves you time, money, and is likely more secure.

### Express the most popular __ __ ____.

Express is the most popular *Node* web framework, and indeed is the underlying library for other frameworks as well!

### Express is “unopinionated.” What does that mean?

*Unopinionated* means that there are few restrictions on the best practices for using/combining components to achieve a goal. This gives devs more flexibility, but a less clear path forward. With Express, you can insert almost any compatible middleware you want in the request handling chain, in whatever order you like.

### What is a module and why is modularity useful to us as developers?

A module is a JavaScript library or file that you can import into your code using `require()`. Express itself is also a module. Modules are helpful because they help devs manage their code into manageable chunks instead of gigantic, monolithic files.

## What is NPM?

NPM is the world's largest software registry! Open source devs across the world can use npm to share their own packages or borrow others. I think about it like a gigantic, free, shared toolbox.

### What version of npm are you running on your machine?

Version 8.12.1

### What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’ into your node project?

npm i jshint

## What is TDD?

TDD is *test-driven development*. It is a style of programming where three activites are tightly interwoven: coding, testing, & design. Here is how it works:

1. Write a single unit test
2. It will fail because there is nothing to test
3. Write just enough code so test passes
4. Refactor
5. Repeat

### Explain why tests are important. Please explain as though I were your non technical elder

Tests are important because you define your goal/problem domain at the very beginning. You have a very clear picture of your objective. Tests reduce the amount of errors in code, saving time and money. Also, some experts believe that designing tests and using TDD leads to improved design quality of their code.

### What are three expected benefits of testing

1. Fewer errors/broken code
2. More work on the front end means less work on the back end of a project
3. Better code design and higher technical quality

### Name at lest 2 individual pitfalls and at least 2 team pitfalls commonly encountered while writing tests

1. Forgetting to run tests frequently
2. Writing too many tests at once
3. Writing tests that are too large

Team:
1. Not everyone in a team adopts the TDD process
2. Poor maintenance/upkeep of test suite

## CI/CD

### What are three benefits of Continuous Integration?

1. Catch bugs
2. Reduce merge conflicts
3. Ensure software is working

### What is the difference between Continuos Delivery and Continuous Deployment?

CD means that software is released in such a way that you could release it at any time. CI allows you to deploy newly developed features with little error and little to no downtime.

### Explain how GitHub fits into this process assuming the listener comes from a non-technical background

- You can use GitHub to integrate CI and CD in an automated way. Everytime you use GitHub, it can do CI and CD as a part of its processes.

## Sources

- [Node/Express](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Express_Nodejs/Introduction)
- [NPM](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm)
- [TDD](https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/tdd/)
- [CI/CD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xSv_m3KhUO8)
