[Home](../README.md) > [Code 401 Topic Notes](../401topicNotes.md)

# Class 03 Reading

## Express REST API

### Review: ES6 Classes

#### Classes are a template for creating ____

Classes are a template for creating objects!

#### Can a class declaration be hoisted?

There is a big distintion that must be made between function declarations and class declarations. Classes *are* hoisted, however their values are not initialized at that time. This means that classes cannot be called/constructed *before* they are defined.

#### How would you describe a constructor and contextual “this” to a non-technical friend?

A constructor is the framework for making an object. For instance, maybe you sell cars. The constructor could contain all of the properties that define a car: make, model, color, year, etc. You could then use it to efficiently create class objects of all of the cars in your inventory. *This* just means that when you're engaging in functionality with your class object (such as calculating price, perhaps), you are referring to the values of that specific object when performing calculations. Example. price = this.msrp + tax(this.msrp).

### Using Express Routing

#### Within Express, what does routing refer to?

Routing refers to how an app's endpoints respond to client requests. When the client makes x request, what functionality do they find at the end?

#### What is the difference between a route path and a route method?

They work together. The route method refers to the HTTP methods that is attached to an instance of the express class (GET, PUT, DELETE, etc.). The path is kind of like the address for the endpoint that the particular route method is served at.

#### When is it appropriate to add next as a parameter to a route handler and what must you do if next has been passed to your middleware as a parameter?

It is appropriate to use next as a parameter when there are additional middlewares to process/be handed off to. If it is passed in as an argument, you must then call it within the body of the function to actually hand off control to the next middleware.

### Express Routing

#### What is an Express Router?

It is a mini-express application that just contains the routing properties of an express app.

#### By what means do we initialize express.Router() in an express server?

We have to call an instance of it, apply routes to it, and then tell our application to use those routes.

#### What do we use route middleware for?

We can use this to define groups of routes to organize our apps and make them more efficient.

## Sources

- [ES6 Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes)
- [Using Express Routing](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html)
- [Express Routing](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/learn-to-use-the-new-router-in-expressjs-4)
