[Home](../README.md) > [Code 401 Topic Notes](../401topicNotes.md)

# Class 05 Reading

## Linked Lists

### Linked Lists (Code Fellows Reference)

- Linked lists are a sequence of *nodes* that are connected or linked to each other.
- Each *node* references the next node in the chain.
- Two different types of linked lists: *singly* (references the *next* node in the list) and *doubly* (references the previous and next in the list)
- Can't use a *for each* or *for* loop . . . must use the *next* value. This is called **Traversal**.
- Best implementation of traversal is with using a *while* loop to check that *next* in the list in not null
- Adding a node is done differently depending on if the node is inserted in the beginning of the linked list, or at the end. There is are important differences in efficiency, implementation, and process

### What is a Linked List Parts I & II

#### Part I

- Linked lists are *linear* data structures (order matters, and they are traversed sequentially)
- A big difference between arrays and linked lists is that arrays are static data structures, whereas linked lists are dynamic. When allocation memory, an array needs a block of memory all in the same place. To build a linked lists, the memory can be in chunks that are scattered. This means that linked lists are much easier to scale in size, since an array would need to be copied/recreated to change and grow or shrink in size.
- Beginning of a linked list: head
- Ending of a linked list: node that points to **null** (empty value)
- Node contains: data, reference to next node
- "A node only knows about what data it contains, and who its neighbor is" -from the reading

#### Part II

- Big O space time complexities are a big part of why we choose to structure data a certain way (it is important to know about efficiency, especially when scaling an enormous amount of data)
- For linked lists: O(1) and O(n) are going to be relevant
- O(1) function takes *constant* time. It doesn't matter how many elements we have, or the size of the input: it will always take the same amount of time and memory to run the algorithm
- O(n) is *linear*, which means that as the input grows, the space and time we need to run our algorithm also grows linearly
- Important to note: Linked lists are generally efficient when it comes to adding and remove most elements, but can be slow to search and find a single element

### Big O

- Big O is used to describe the efficiency of an algorithm or function
- It deals with two different factors:
  1. Running Time (time efficiency)
  2. Memory Space (space efficieny)

- Big O's role is to describe the possible worst case of efficiency an algorithm can have. There are 4 different factors to consider:
  1. Input size (size of parameter values)
  2. Units of measurement
  3. Orders of growth
  4. Best, worse, and average cases

- Units of Measurement looks at three key factors:
  1. Time in milliseconds for function run
  2. The number of operations that are executed (think about lines of code)
  3. The number of "Basic Operations" that are conducted

- Quantifying Space looks at four different key factors:
  1. Space needed to hold the code for the algorithm
  2. Space needed to hold input data
  3. Space needed to hold output data
  4. Space needed to hold the working space during the calculation

We also can look at different *orders of growth*. Three different examples we will commonly see are:

1. Constant complexity (always uses the same time or space)
2. Logarithmic complexity (starts uses more, decreases over time...think about looking through a list: you have less data to look through as possibilities are excluded)
3. Linear complexity (size of inputs (n) directly determines the amount of space and running time length needed)

### Teaching Approach

Think about linked lists as a set of directions with waypoints you have to follow to lead you to a certain destination, like an easter egg hunt with clues. Each clue has information and leads you to the next clue. It's easier to put clues at the beginning of the hunt than have to insert them into the middle or the end because it could be time consuming to find the ones you need. If all of the clues were on one list, that's like an array. It's nice to have everything in one place, and quick to have all of the information in one place. You need one big piece of paper to hold all of the clues in one place, however, and if you want to change anything in the list, you have to print out the sheet of paper all over again!

## Sources

- [Linked List](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-05/resources/singly_linked_list.html)
- [What is a Linked List? Part I](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-1-d8b7e6508b9d)
- [What is a Linked List? Part II](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-2-131d96f71996)
