[Home](../README.md) > [Code 401 Topic Notes](../401topicNotes.md)

# Class 15 - Trees

## Reading

### Tree Terminology

1. **Node** - Component which may contain own values, references other nodes
2. **Root** - Node at the beginning of the tree
3. **K** - Specifies the maximum amount of *children* a node may have
4. **Left** - References a child node in a binary tree
5. **Right** - References the other child node in a binary tree
6. **Edge** - Link between child and parent node
7. **Leaf** - A node with no children
8. **Height** - Number of edges from root to the furthest leaf

### Traversals

There are two different categories of tree traversals:

- Depth first
- Breadth first

When traversing a tree, the most common method to use is *recursion*. In the example of a depth first traversal, we would go through all of the nodes of a certain path until we reach the end, adding these nodes to a stack. When we reach a dead end, we pop off the last node from the stack and check that next node for any available path we have not yet gone down and repeat. There are few different orders in which you can do a depth first traversal including: pre-order, in-order, and post-order.


### Big O

The Big O time complexity for adding a new node or searching for a node is O(n). Since there is a lack of organizational structure in a binary tree, the worst case for most operations would require searching the entire tree.

Big O space complexity for adding a node using breadth first insertion will be O(w), where w is the largest width of the tree.

### Binary Search Trees

A BST is a type of tree that is structured. Simply put, nodes are organized so that all values smaller than the root are placed to the left, and all values that are larger than the root are placed to the right.

Searching a BST is more efficient, because we only have to traverse one side of our tree depending on if the value is smaller or larger than the root. One approach is with a while loop.
