[Home](../README.md) > [Code 401 Topic Notes](../401topicNotes.md)

# Class 13 - Message Queues

## Socket.io Chat Example

### Explain to a non-technical recruiter what the Chat Example (above) does

The chat example shows us how to build a basic browser-based chat interface with socket.io. The idea is that a user fills out a form (a message) and when they submit it to the server, the server than pushes it out to all of the others users.

### What proof of life are we getting on the backend from the above app?

On connection, the console prints out that a user connected.

### Socket.IO gives us the i0.emit() method to send an event to everyone. What flag would you use if you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket?

In that case, we use the broadcast flag. For example:

```socket.broadcast.emit('what up')```

## Rooms

### What is a room and how might a room be useful?

A room is a channel that sockets can join or leave. They're useful because they can be used to broadcast events to a subset of sockets/clients. Basically: hey this event pertains to all of you in *this specific* room, listen up (instead of broadcasting to all of the sockets).

### How do you join a room?

You call ```join``` to subscribe a socket to a channel (room). ```socket.join("Room Name")```.

### How do you leave a room?

You can use "disconnecting" to fetch the rooms that the socket was in, and end the connection with the channel with "disconnect".

## Namespaces

### What is a Namespace and what does it allow you to do?

It is a communication channel that enables you to split the logic of your app of a single connection. To me it seems like: on this event, this namespace do this thing, this other namespace do this other thing.

### Each namespace potentially has its own what? (hint: 3 things)

1. Event handlers
2. Rooms
3. Middlewares

### Discuss a possible use case for separate namespaces

Maybe only authorized users have access to specific elements in your application!

## Sources

- [Socket.io Chat](https://socket.io/get-started/chat/)
- [Rooms](https://socket.io/docs/v4/rooms)
- [Namespaces](https://socket.io/docs/v4/namespaces/)
