[Home](../README.md) > [Code 401 Topic Notes](../401topicNotes.md)

# Class 06 Reading

## Authentication

### Securing Passwords

#### Explain to a non-technical friend how you would safely hash and store a password

We need to store user passwords somewhere so that their values can be referenced against to authenticate. It is a *very* bad idea to store the passwords in their original, plain text. To combat this, we can use **hashing**. Think of hashing as using a cryptographic (code) tool on your plain text password to convert it into a hashed password that must be deciphered. Only the program that made the code has the key to decipher it.

#### What is Bcrypt?

Bcrypt is a tool that uses a technique called **key stretching** to slow down hash functions (making them more "expensive"). This greatly limits the effectiveness of brute force attacks.

#### Why might you use something like Bcrypt?

To make my users' passwords, and therefore sensitive data, more secure.

### Basic Auth

#### What is Basic Authentication?

Basic access authentication is a method for an HTTP user agent (browser) to implement user name and password when making a request. These credentials are Base64 encoded.

#### What properties are necessary in the header of a Basic Auth request?

The authorization header contains a username and password that are combined with a colon--meaning that the username itself may not utilize a colon. This string is encoded into an octet sequence, encoded with Base64, and sent.

#### How are username:password in Basic Auth encoded?

In an octet string with Base64. This means there is no real protection, and user confidentiality must be further protected/combined with HTTPS.

### OWASP Auth Cheatsheet

#### Define the authentication process to a non-technical recruiter

Users should need to be verified, or identified to be whom they claim to be. This is performed using usernames, passwords, and sometimes additional information. These authenticators are to be used in concert with session management (how a server maintains the state of something interacting with it). Considerations for authentication:

1. Usernames should be case-insensitibe and unique
2. Do **NOT** allow login to sensitive accounts/back-end processes to front-end user interfaces
3. Don't limit character types in password creation
4. Passwords should be *at least* 8 characters long
5. Store passwords securely

#### How should your error messaging respond (both HTTP and HTML)? Why?

You need to be careful with HTTP because status codes can leak user information, such as if an account is valid or not. HTML error codes should not be too generic, because this can confuse users and lower their UI experience.

#### Bookmark this link also and consider OWASP fundamentals any time you interact with authentication. Applications developed with security in mind from inception have fewer vulnerabilities throughout their lifecycle

## Sources

- [Securing Passwords](https://thehackernews.com/2014/04/securing-passwords-with-bcrypt-hashing.html)
- [Basic Authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication)
- [OWASP Cheatsheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Authentication_Cheat_Sheet.html)
