[Home](../README.md) > [Code 401 Topic Notes](../401topicNotes.md)

# Class 10  Stacks and Queues

## Reading

### Stacks

What is a **stack**? A stack is a type of data structure that is made of *nodes*. Each node references the next node in the stack, but not the previous one. There is some important terminology to understand when it comes to a stack.

1. Push - Putting a node into the stack
2. Pop - Removing an item from the stack. If you try to pop a node from an empty stack, this will trigger an exception
3. Top - The top of the stack
4. Peek - Views the value of the top node in the stack. Also raises an exception from an empty stack
5. IsEmpty - returns true when stack is empty, otherwise is false

Now that we went over some terminology, there is also some important concepts to understand.

1. **FILO** means *first in last out*, meaning that the first item added to the stack will be the *last* one popped.
2. **LIFO** means *last in first out*, meaning the last item will be the first item popped out of the stack.

### Queues

Instead of a stack, which is sort of like a pile of plates we add or take away from, a queue is like waiting in a line. Here is some important terminology for a queue:

1. Enqueue - Adding an item or node to the queue
2. Dequeue - Removing an item or node from the queue. Raises an exception if the queue is empty.
3. Front - The front/first node in the queue
4. Rear - Rear/last node in the queue
5. Peek - Viewing the value of the front node in the queue. Creates an exception if called on an empty queue.
6. IsEmpty - True when the queue is empty, otherwise returns false

Queues also follow some different concepts than the stack, which are important to distinguish.

1. **FIFO** means *first in first out*, meaning the first item added to the queue will be the first one out of the queue
2. **LILO** means *last in last out*, meaning the last item added to the queue will be the last one out of the queue

### Efficiency Considerations

Pushing, popping, enqueueing, dequeueing, peeking, and checking if empty are all O(1) because none of them care about how many other items are in the stack or queue to perform, just the one that you are working with. In this way, it seems pretty efficient!

## Sources

- [Stacks and Queues](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-10/resources/stacks_and_queues.html)
