[Home](../README.md) > [Code 301 Topic Notes](../301topicNotes.md)

# Class 014

## Diversity & Inclusion in the Tech Industry

## That Time When Women Stopped Coding

### What occurred during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?

- Personal computers started showing up in homes. They weren't much more than toys in many ways, and were marketed almost entirely towards men and boys. There were also more than a few 80's movies that perpetuated this idea by using the plot of "nerdy boy genius uses tech savvy to win over the girl in the end".

### Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?

- It mattered because CS professors assumed that their students had grown up playing with computers. This was a shift in expectations from the 60s and 70s when there was no expectation of prior experience with computers.

## Employee Breakdown

### When are diversity efforts most successful?

- When they are driven by a commitment from company leaders. This requires them to understand why diversity matters.

### Why do diverse companies perform better?

- Diverse companies parform better because they bring to an organization different ways of identifying and solving problems. This mixture of backgrounds allows diverse teams to be smarter and more creative than homogeneous teams.

### Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa

- Diverse teams allow them to better represent problems that their diverse user base may experience. An example would be that if more black people worked for a company like Twitter, this would enable the company to perhaps have better ideas for being able to more effectively engage black users. This diversity is important is so many different ways and applications.

## Things I Want to Know More About

- Reading this has definitely prompted me to start looking at how to ask about an organization's diversity and inclusion initiatives when looking for a company I want to work for.

## Sources

- [That Time When Women Stopped Coding](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/10/21/357629765/when-women-stopped-coding)
- [Employee Breakdown](https://informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/)
- [Why Diversity Matters to Your Tech Company](https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2015/07/21/why-diversity-matters-your-tech-company/30419871/)
