[Home](../README.md) > [Code 301 Topic Notes](../301topicNotes.md)

# Class 02

## States and Props

This subject matters because it is detailing the lifecycle of a component, and what happens during each phase. This knowledge can be used to make our code run efficiently and bug free.

1. According to the chart, render occurs before 'componentDidMount'
2. The constructor is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React.
3. constructor, render, react updates, componentDidMount, componentWillUnmount'
4. componentDidMount is invoked immediately after a component is mounted. It is a good place to load network requests or initialize the DOM.

### React: Component Lifecycle Events

Component lifecycle events can be described in three phases:

1. Mounting: An instance of a component is being created and inserted into the DOM. Other things that occur during this phase are: constructors, render, etc.

2. Updating: Anytime a component is updated or changes its state, it is rerendered.

3. Unmounting: Final phase of lifecycle, used when a component is being removed from the DOM. componentWillUnmount is the only lifecycle event used in this phase.

The constructor for a component is called before mounted. If it is a subclass, make sure to call super(props), or else the props will be undefined. constuctors can be used to assign state (this.state) or to bind event handle methods to an instance.

render() is the only required method in a class component. It examines this.props and this.state when called. Render should not modify state, because it would change the component state every time it rendered/rerendered, possibly causing lots of bugs. If shouldComponentUpdate() return as false, render will not be invoked.

Information for additional methods such as: componentDidMount(), shouldComponentUpdate(), getSnapshotBeforeUpdate(), componentDidUpdate(), etc can be found at the source for these notes listed below.

Source: [Medium](https://medium.com/@joshuablankenshipnola/react-component-lifecycle-events-cb77e670a093)

### React States Vs Props

What types of things can you pass in the props?
- Initial count for a counter inside of a component, displaying something to a user that has a title or subtitle.

What is the big difference between props and state?
- You pass props into a component from the outside (like arguments for a function), state is handled inside of that component. When you change the state inside of an application, it will rerender that part of the application, whereas props must be changed outside of it.

When do we re-render our application?
- When the state changes inside of our application based on something the user has done.

What are some examples of things that we could store in state?
- A counter that we update, items inside of a form that need to be updated by the user (such as a checkbox), whenever information is handled inside of a component.

Source: [Web Dev Simplified](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYvD9oBCuJI)
