[Home](../README.md) > [Code 301 Topic Notes](../301topicNotes.md)

# Class 01

## Component-Based Architecture

**Component-based architecture** breaks down the design of code into individual functional or logical components that represent interfaces which contain methods, events, and properties. This divides larger problems into sub-problems, associated with component partitions. The purpose of this idea is to enable component reusability. The way I think of this, is like a modular device such as a custom-built computer. You can add hardware to the motherboard that has self-contained functions for the computer.

### Some advantages of component-based architecture:

- Reduced time/development by reusing components
- Increased reliability–you know the component already works!

### Component Definition:

- Components are software objects that are designed to interact with other components. I think of them a little like software legos. They are modular, replaceable, reusable, and portable sets of well-defined functionality.

### There are three different ways to view components:

1. Object-oriented view
2. Conventional view
3. Process-related view

### Characteristics of Components:

- Reusability (components can usually be reused in different applications)
- Replaceable (can be substituted with other, similar components)
- Not context-specific (components designed to be operated in different environments and contexts)
- Extensible (can be extended by different components to change behavior)
- Encapsulated (they don’t expose internal processes or variables)
- Independent (minimal dependencies on other components)

### Advantages:

- Ease of deployment (easy to swap out new, compatible versions)
- Reduced cost (use of third-party components reduce dev and maintenance costs)
- Development Ease (well known functionality and interfaces already exist)
- Reusable
- Modification of technical complexity
- Reliability (System reliability is increased because of individual component reliability)
- System maintenance and evolution (easy to change and modify without affecting the rest of the system)
- Independent

## Props in React JS

**Props** is the way to pass data between components (when they need to communicate). “Props” is a special keyword in React, which stands for *properties*.

Data with props is passed in a *uni-directional flow* (one way from parent to child). Additionally, data from props is *read only*, meaning that data coming from a parent should not be changed by its children.

### To use Props:

1. Define an attribute and its value
2. Pass it to child components using Props
3. Render Props data

## Sources

- [Tutorials Point](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/software_architecture_design/component_based_architecture.htm)
- [ITNEXT](https://itnext.io/what-is-props-and-how-to-use-it-in-react-da307f500da0)
