[Home](../README.md) > [Code 301 Topic Notes](../301topicNotes.md)

# Class 010

## Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack

### What is a ‘call’?

- A *call* is used for function invocation. Basically, we request *this* function be run.

### How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?

- The *call stack* is a single stack, so function execution are done *one at at a time*.

### What does LIFO mean?

- **LIFO** means *Last In, First Out*, meaning that the last functions that are called are at the top of the stack, and they will also be the first ones to be resolved.

### Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.

- firstFunction
- secondFunction
- thirdFunction

If they are stacked in this manner, then the firstFunction was actually the last on the stack, and will be the first function to be ran when the stack is resolved.

### What causes a Stack Overflow?

- A stack overflow happens when you have a *recursive function* (one that calls itself without an exit point). These function calls will build up on the stack call until it has exceeded its limit.

## JavaScript Error Messages

### What is a ‘reference error’?

- A reference error occurs when you try to use a variable that is not yet declared.

### What is a ‘syntax error’?

- This happens when you have something that cannot be parsed in terms of syntax. There is some formatting/syntax that is incorrect.

### What is a ‘range error’?

- A range error occurs when you try to manipulate an object with some kind of length (like an array), and give it an *invalid length*. For instance, an array could not be a negative length.

### What is a ‘tyep error’?

- The datatype you are trying to use or access is incompatible. Example: trying to access something that is *undefined* when you are thinking it is an object.

### What is a breakpoint?

- A breakpoint will cause your code to run up until a certain line of code, or if a certain condition is met. This is used for debugging, so that you can check that your code up until a certain point is returning the values that you expect.

### What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?

- You can see the history of the code that has been run (call stack), up until the breakpoint. This helps you again to analyze what has happened with how your code has fired up until the breakpoint.

## Things I Want to Know More About

- I would like to learn a little more about LIFO, because it seems like some of the examples (the first in particular), looked to be FIFO. Does JS go through your entire file of code, and add the first functions into the stack last? Thinking about that one a little too hard.
- Not really a question, but I know that I need to spend more time becoming proficient with the debugger. We were introduced to it in 201, but I have yet to dedicate the time neccessary to use it effectively.

## Sources

- [Understanding the JS Call Stack](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4)
- [JS Error Messages](https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c)
