[Home](../README.md) > [Code 301 Topic Notes](../301topicNotes.md)

# Class 011

## NoSQL VS SQL

### Differences Between

1. SQL are called 'Relational Databases' (RDBMS), while NoSQL databases are called non-relational or distributed databases.

2. SQL DBs are table-based, whereas NoSQL DBs are document-based, key-value pairs, graphs, or wide-column stores.

3. SQL DBs have a predefined schema, whereas NoSQL DBs have dynamic schema for unstructured data.

4. SQL DBs are vertically scalabe, whereas NoSQL are horizontally-scalable. To increase scale for SQL: increase power of the hardware. To increase scale for NoSQL: add additional servers.

5. SQL tends to be a better fit for complex queries, but NoSQL DBs are better for heirarchical data storage.

### What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?

- Non-heirarchical data is a good fit for SQL databases. It is also a great fit for heavy duty transactional applications.

### Give a real world example

- A busy ecommerce site with lots of products and customers. In this case, you can correlate related tables together into one. For example: a product table, customer table, and orders table that uses elements from each.

### What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?

- Hierachical data is a good fit.

### Give a real world example (2)

- Something like a newspaper might be a good fit for NoSQL, since the data being stored is likely to vary greatly in content and size.

### Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?

- NoSQL is better for that!

### Which type of database is best for scalability?

- Most likely NoSQL, as you don't need to improve hardware on a single server, but to just add additional servers.

## Video

### What does SQL stand for?

- SQL stands for *structured query language*. It isn't really a type of database, perse, but a way of querying a database.

### What is a relational database?

- A relational database is one that uses tables (and SQL to query) to order data.

### What type of structure does a relational database work with?

- Tables, specifically tables that deal with each other!

### What is a ‘schema’?

- A schema is a specific, defined structure or syntax that is used to do something within an application.

### What is a NoSQL database?

- An example of a NoSQL database is MongoDB. They are non-relational databases.

### How does it work?

- They remind me a little of objects in JavaScript. Essentially, freeform ways to store and retrieve large amounts of data with no predefined schema enforced.

### What is inside of a Mongo database?

- There is a database that contains collections. The collections themselves contain documents. You can think of the collections as tables--sort of--but the documents can all store different data within them--a departure from what we saw with SQL databases that are more strictly table-based.

### Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why

- MongoDB is more flexible. All of your documents in a collection do not need to store the same information (or have the same datafields).

### What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?

- Having a non-specific schema can be difficult--you can't guarantee that your documents are all going to have the information that you want. Relational data is also difficult. Basically, you want to place all of the data in one place instead of relating data from different places.

## Things I Want to Know More About

- Very interesting topic, that I knew nothing about, that makes a whole lot of sense, especially with the included video. I really see the benefits and drawbacks for both! I would like to dig a little more into SQL, because that very structured idea (and schemas) is not as natural to me. It seems to me that SQL data and queries could be very organized and powerful if done correctly.

## Sources

- [NoSQL vs SQL](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool)
- [NoSQL vs SQL Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y)
