[Home](../README.md) > [Code 301 Topic Notes](../301topicNotes.md)

# Class 08

## API Design Best Practices

### What does REST stand for?

- Representational State Transfer

### REST APIs are designed around a ____.

- REST APIs are designed around a resource, which are any kind of object, data, or service that can be accessed by the client.

### What is an identifier of a resource? Give an example.

- An identifier of a resource is a URI that uniquely identifies that resource. An example looks a lot like a URL with a specific endpoint.

### What are the most common HTTP verbs?

- They are: GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, AND DELETE.

### What should the URIs be based on?

- They should be based on nouns (the resource), and not on verbs.

### Give an example of a good URI.

- example.com/customers

### What does it mean to have a ‘chatty’ web API? Is this a good or a bad thing?
- Chatty web APIs make a lot of requests that put load on the server. This should be avoided.

### What status code does a successful GET request return?

- 200

### What status code does an unsuccessful GET request return?

- If the resource can't be found: 404
- If fulfulled, but there is no response body: 204 (no content)

### What status code does a successful POST request return?

- 201

### What status code does a successful DELETE request return?

- 204

## Things I Want to Know More About

- Now that I know more about how REST works, I'm looking forward to paying more attention to it in my server implementation to see how things work. I want to learn more about how to use the other methods besides GET.

## Sources

- [API Design](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/best-practices/api-design)
