[Home](../README.md) > [Code 301 Topic Notes](../301topicNotes.md)

# Class 06

## Node.js Intro

What is node.js?

- Node.js is a program that we use to execute JavaScript on our computers. More specifically, it is a JavaScript runtime that is built on  Google Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine (with added file system API, HTTP library, and other features).

In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?

- Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine is what converts JavaScript code into code that your computer can actually execute. In my mind, it is a type of translator for code.

What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?

- It means that we use node to execute JavaScript on computers (or to make it run).

What is npm?

- **npm** is a *node package manager*. It is *the* package manager for JavaScript and has over 1 million different packages of JS code available to use.

What version of node are you running on your machine?

- I am running  v16.13.2

What version of npm are you running on your machine?

- v8.8.0

What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?

- You would type in: `npm install -g jshint` (the `-g` means that we are installing it *globally* on our system and not locally)

What is node used for?

- Node is used to put various libraries and building tools at our fingertips for development. You don't strictly *need* to use node, but it further builds out the tools at our disposal for our development environment. Some examples include: running tests, automatic code linting, style checking, React frameworks, making JS run on servers, etc. It is particularly advantages for building out applications that require real-time interaction or collaboration.

## Reasons for Pair Programming

What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?

1. **Greater Efficiency** - Catch mistakes, enhances technical skills, produces higher-quality code
2. **Engaged Collaboration** - Experience is more engaging and keeps programmers focused
3. **Learning From Fellow Students** - Exposes individuals to techniques or approaches they would not have done on their own
4. **Social Skills** - Develops social, communication, and other interpersonal skills
5. **Job Interview Readiness** - Pair programming is a common interview technique
6. **Work Environment Readiness** - Many companies use pair programming to train new hires in how their company approaches code

In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?

- I have enjoyed all of these benefits, and can clearly see the benefits of pair programming, however I have really enjoyed the engaged collaboration and learning from fellow students (and teaching them as well). It is amazing to see all of the different solutions there are for a problem when you can only see one yourself. It is certainly a technique that I will continue to use, and it has gotten me to seek help from my classmates more often.

How does pair programming work?

- Typically, there are two different roles while pair programming: the **driver** and the **navigator**. The **driver** is the programmer who has their hands on the keyboard and is doing all of the writing of code, switching and creating files, handling version control, etc. The **navigator** is not writing any code, but they are thinking about ideas, what comes next, how to solve problems (and perhaps looking up documentation), and scanning for typos or mistakes. The **navigator** is not physically writing any of the code. Usually after a set amount of time, the roles can be reversed.

## Things I Want to Know More About

- I feel like I do have a better understand of a lot of the development environment Code Fellows had us set up on our computer. From now on, I would like to have a better idea of what I'm actually installing, where it is going on my system, and how it works as I do it. The pieces are slowly coming together here, but I would like to understand it to the point where I could explain it to somebody else, and install my own nodes for my own projects that I'm working on.

## Sources

- [Sitepoint - Node.js](https://www.sitepoint.com/an-introduction-to-node-js/)
- [Code Fellows - Pair Programming](https://www.codefellows.org/blog/6-reasons-for-pair-programming/)
